Now more than ever we are using home delivery of goods purchased online. Most of us would not even consider shopping at a particular retailer if shipping was not included for free. Other times we add things to our basket to be eligible for free shipping. While the shipping does not cost us personally at the checkout there is still a cost involved. A cost paid by the environment to ship the items from a manufacturing district to a series of distribution centers and finally to your home. Travelling by boat, plane and truck to finally arrive at your door. The carbon dioxide released for this journey is non trivial and when multiplied by the millions of online purchases made daily, this is a substantial amount of damage being done day in and day out. 

Online shopping and by consequence shipping is only projected to increase as we move to a more decentralized approach of living. It is only fair that we consider the effects our purchases have on the environment and do our part to minimize those unfortunate consequences of a carbon based distribution network.

Knowing the approximate carbon dioxide footprint created by your online purchases is a powerful lesson in self awareness. This is where our solution comes into place. With OffShip you can find out how much carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere and be connected with NGOs looking out for the planet. 

It all starts by installing our Chrome extension which monitors your online shopping cart. Behind the scenes the extension is busy finding all the data needed about the item such as how much it weighs, where it is manufactured and shipped from. We then calculate the distance and the CO2 produced in the in that journey to your front door. We then provide you with a summary of our calculations and 3 choices of charities with a suggested cost to fund your Carbon Offset Credits.

By focusing on the leading online retailers we hope to mitigate the damage shipping causes to the environment. We also want to provide information that can be easily digested so people become educated on what "free shipping" really cost.
